Take a look at the solutions here for the quiz number one first question says if two objects are electrically
attracted to each other okay.
Then there have some choices over here both objects must be negatively charged.
Well let's have a look at two things that are negatively charged to objects.
No that won't work right.
These are not attracted to each other.
These would have a force that would be repulsive.
So actually this one is wrong.
Both objects must be positively charged.
Again that's kind of the same thing right.
These are both positively charged.
They would be repelled by each other.
So so that one there also doesn't work.
All right.
Clean that up a little bit.
Next one object must be negatively charged and the other must be positively charge.
Let's draw that one.
So this one's negatively charged.
This one's positively charged.
Well that one would kind of work.
The only thing that I don't really like about this one here is that it says it must.
OK.
Sometimes you have to be careful with these words.
So let's have a look at the next one.
The object could be I kind of prefer words like could and let's go see why it could be electrically
neutral.
However it says neutral over there.
So this one's actually a little bit of a tricky problem.
Let me show you kind of two neutral objects right.
So one of them is like this and positive and negative and this one is positive and negative.
Well if you look at all the interactions that we would have there would be an interaction between the
positive and the negative here that would be attractive.
There would be a repulsive force between the two positives and then you could do the same thing with
the negative right.
So you might say that those cancel out and you'd probably be true.
However there is another way you can draw these neutral objects I imagine I have a neutral object that
looks like this.
What if it's more positively charged on one side of the object versus the other.
Right.
And over on this side I have the same thing.
All right.
And I've shown you how to create objects like this.
Right.
What if I bring a rod over here that is negatively charged what it's going to do is it's going to push
the negative charges on one side.
All right.
But what is the interaction here between this guy and this guy.
Both of these are neutral.
They're not touching each other.
However these guys would be attractive because you could see that the positive and the negative here
are closer together.
Right.
Although these we have some repulsion between these positives and these positives they're farther apart.
So the net force here is actually attractive so actually the best answer is actually this one over here
choice D.
The little bit of a tricky one you might have said See.
However it's not always the case.
OK.
Because here you can have two neutral objects that attract each other.
All right let's go do problem to let me scroll down over here so we can see the full question.
Problem 2 says we have these diagrams here it says X and Y are two uncharged spherical spheres.
OK.
On insulating stands and there are in contact with each other.
So that's also important.
That means that electrons can go from x to y positively charged right over here is brought closer to
X is shown sphere Y is then moved the way.
What is the final charge of both X and Y.
All right well let's think about electrons again.
Electrons are the things that are going to move.
So imagine here we have certain number of electrons electrons are going to be attracted to this rod.
Right.
So there's going to be more electrons that are going to move from Y since it's in contact over here
it means the electrons can move to this side.
So what does that leave charge on the sphere wide.
That means overall it's going to be positively charged because the electrons are going to move over
electrons move this way
OK.
So what does that mean then after you remove everything and you split him up.
So once you split them up the charges are stuck.
They can't fly off the sphere.
So what you're doing here is you're going to be leaving the system kind of like this positively charged
object and negatively charged object.
All right.
So both X and Y are neutral.
No that's not going to happen.
X is positive.
No we said X is going to be negative x is neutral.
Nope.
Again the best answer is D is the best answer right.
X is negative y is positive.
All right.
So kind of a good little problem there.
Let's go to problem three.
Me scroll down.
Our problem three says two on charge spheres again.
Well let's go ahead and draw them.
This will be sphere 1 and Sphere 2.
OK third metal sphere carrying a positive charge is then placed.
All right.
So let's place sphere 3 is always a good idea to draw a little sketch of what's going on.
This one is positively charged OK it's placed closer to 2.
Now a copper wire is momentarily connected.
OK.
So we're going to put a conducting path over here between the two and it's then removed.
Finally sphere three is removed.
Well let's see what happens to these electrons again.
They're probably neutral and initially they're uncharged.
And once I bring this positive over here what happens.
Well it's going to attract some of the electrons the electrons from sphere number one are going to move
this way at the end that's going to leave this guy here positively charged because it lost some electrons
the electrons want to go over here and then what do you do.
Well then you remove the conducting wire so you're left with some charges over here.
So once you remove the wire again the charges cannot move anymore.
So let's have a look what our choices are.
They're still in charge.
No.
Sphere one carries a positive charge and sphere to a negative charge.
I like that one the other ones are kind of the opposite.
Nope and no one no.
All right.
So B is actually the best answer for this one.
All right now let's look at our final one says a negatively charged Rod this time to be a little bit
careful as brought close to but does not touch.
OK two neutral spheres that are in contact.
So it's kind of like question two that the spheres are in contact but they're insulated from the ground.
If the two spheres are then separated.
All right.
So again it's kind of let's just draw it out.
Sphere one sphere two initially in contact and then then I burn my rod which is negatively charged.
Well let's think about what happens to the electrons when there's a negatively charged object over here
electrons want to go this way.
Right.
And you're gonna be left with a net positive charge over here.
And once you separate them this is going to stay fixed like this.
All right.
If the two spheres are then separated what kind of charge will be on the spheres.
The sphere near the rod becomes positive and the other sphere becomes negative.
Yeah.
This is what we have right.
This guy here is positive.
That's near the rod.
And this one's negative.
So I kind of like that choice already.
Let's look at the other ones.
Let's be is the exact opposite of a.
And this we know the objects will become charged.
OK so a is the best answer for that one.
All right hopefully you kind of understand this charging process when you make objects in contact and
then you remove them.
OK.
This charge is going to stay fixed on them and you can charge objects simply by bringing other objects
like rods or other charge spheres close to them.